Israel says it is investigating how its
defenses failed to prevent a drone
strike in central Tel Aviv hthi rebels
in Yemen claimed responsibility for the
attack which killed one person and
injured at least 10 others they say the
strike was in retaliation for Israel's
war in
Gaza the explosion came around 3:00 a.m.
local time blowing out windows and
damaging
cars a drone strike right in the heart
of Tel Aviv raining down shrapnel and
shards of glass just meters from the US
Embassy even for a nation at War this
was a startling strike the iranian-made
Drone appears to have come from the
Mediterranean
Sea no air raid alarms were triggered
and it avoided the Iron Dome defense
system the Israeli Army said it was
investigating and it would take all
actions necessary to protect the
country the Israeli Air Force is
currently examining the incident
including the reason of why no alerts
were
sounded this is not a steal UAV this is
an an Iranian UAV it was detected by our
systems we are examining the
circumstances of why it wasn't
intercepted Yemen's houthi Rebel forces
claimed responsibility declaring Tel
Aviv as a quote primary
target the Drone force of the Yi houthi
Armed Forces with Allah's help carried
out a military operation that targeted
one of the important Targets in the
occupied Jaffa area known as Tel Aviv by
the
Israelis the United Nations condemned
the strike and called for
calm the Secretary General remains
deeply concerned about the risk such
dangerous acts pose for further
escalation in the region he urges all to
exercise maximum restraint and to
deescalate to avoid further inflaming
the situation in the region the Israeli
Army believes the Drone was launched
from Yemen raising the question of how
it traveled more than 2,000 kmers
without being intercepted this was not
the first time the yemeni rebels have
targeted Israel with drones but it is
the first lethal strike by the houthis
on Israeli soil well I'm joined Now by
security analyst Marina [__] she is
with King's College London Mar it's good
to see you Israel's Army it believes
that this drone was launched from Yemen
how did that drone reach Israel
undetected good evening Brent well the
investigation is still ongoing in terms
of what happened and how the Drone
managed to evade air defenses but if we
look at the footage for instance the
Drone was coming from the Mediterranean
so looking at the map it wasn't expected
to come from that direction um that's
number one the other possibility of
course combined with that is the fact
that these drones are manufactured in
such a way as to evade air defenses and
it seems to be a new iteration of the
Samad three drone that hoodies have been
used so there is a possibility that um
the air defense were not enough and
Israel has been struggling with um
drones specifically because its air
defenses are designed for missiles so
what do we know about the the Drone that
was used in this
strike well so far as there are
conflicting reports we know that um some
reports refer to this drone as a yaka
drone which is an upgraded version of a
Samad three drone now Samad 3 drone was
developed in 2008
and it is um designed by Iran however
hoodies have been able to use um
domestic and foreign components in order
to manufacture these drones so
apparently that's a drone that is claim
to have a range of um 1 and a half
thousand kilometers that has been
used the HTI say that they will keep
targeting Israel were they lucky that
the Drone was able to reach Tel Aviv
this time or could this pose a serious
new threat to Israel's air
defenses well in terms of air defenses
um obviously Israel is now dealing also
with Hezbollah in the north so it would
create a problem for Israel um when it
comes to intercepting these drones and
um a hoodie spokesman said that that is
just the beginning of the escalation
however if we look at the geography I
don't think that it would be um very
efficient for htis to try and attack
Israeli territory they are much more
successful attacking the ships in the
Red Sea and putting a lot of pressure so
it remains to be seen what happens but I
I think that Israel will have to also
rely on the allied help in order to
intercept drones if hood is as they
claim designed to use these U mod
modified samat 3 against Israel we've
seen drones being used extensively in
the war between Russia and Ukraine are
militant groups like The htis are they
employing tactics learned from that
conflict well I would say it's actually
the other way around because um drones
offer such groups an asymmetric
Advantage because they they are much
cheaper to manufacture and as far as
hoties are concerned in this specific
example they have started using drones
as early as late 2015 or so and they
have been developing their own drones
and using them against um Sai Arabia
against Saudi forces as well as um
Targets on Saudi territory so I think um
if anything they might have inspired um
the use of drones and of course we have
seen the use of barar tb2 in nagoro
kabak so this is an evolution and what
we're seeing here with the hoodies is
that they are trying to perect their
craft and upgrade their drones by using
foreign components and domestic
components for instance to increase the
payload or evade a defenses or increase
the endurance of their drones before we
run out of time Marina we know the
houthis are backed by Iran is it likely
that Iran played a direct role in this
strike well Iran has been supporting
hoodies but it doesn't mean that Iran
coordinates every single strike that um
the Affiliated groups conduct so it's
difficult to say but I I
I might be but um they still have their
own goal so each of these groups um in
the access have their own political
Ambitions but they share the common
enemy so there is a likelihood that Iran
could have been involved but um perhaps
it's just a hoodie thing security
analyst Marina Maron Marin as always
thank you